* Fetch the employee number, first name and last name of those employees who are working as Sales Rep reporting to employee with employeenumber 1102 (Refer employee table)

```yaml
select employeenumber,firstname,lastname from employees
where reportsTo = 1102;
```

* 	Show the unique productline values containing the word cars at the end from the products table.
Expected output:

```yaml
select customernumber,customername,
case 
when country in ("Canada","USA") then "North America"
    when country  in ("UK","France","Germany") then "Europe"
else "other"
 end
customersegment
from customers;

```
*  Using a CASE statement, segment customers into three categories based on their country:(Refer Customers table)
                        "North America" for customers from USA or Canada
                        "Europe" for customers from UK, France, or Germany
                        "Other" for all remaining countries

 
```yaml
SELECT 
    customernumber,
    customername,
    CASE
        WHEN country IN ('Canada' , 'USA') THEN 'North America'
        WHEN country IN ('UK' , 'France', 'Germany') THEN 'Europe'
        ELSE 'other'
    END customersegment
FROM
    customers;

```

*  Select the customerNumber, customerName, and the assigned region as "CustomerSegment".

```yaml

```

* Using the OrderDetails table, identify the top 10 products (by productCode) with the highest total order quantity across all orders.

```yaml

```

* Company wants to analyse payment frequency by month. Extract the month name from the payment date to count the total number of payments for each month and include only those months with a payment count exceeding 20. Sort the results by total number of payments in descending order.  (Refer Payments table). 

```yaml

```

* customer_id: This should be an integer set as the PRIMARY KEY and AUTO_INCREMENT.
* first_name: This should be a VARCHAR(50) to store the customer's first name.
* last_name: This should be a VARCHAR(50) to store the customer's last name.
* email: This should be a VARCHAR(255) set as UNIQUE to ensure no duplicate email addresses exist.
* phone_number: This can be a VARCHAR(20) to allow for different phone number formats.

#### Add a NOT NULL constraint to the first_name and last_name columns to ensure they always have a value.

```yaml

```

* order_id: This should be an integer set as the PRIMARY KEY and AUTO_INCREMENT.
* customer_id: This should be an integer referencing the customer_id in the Customers table  (FOREIGN KEY).
* order_date: This should be a DATE data type to store the order date.
* total_amount: This should be a DECIMAL(10,2) to store the total order amount.
     	
#### Constraints:
* Set a FOREIGN KEY constraint on customer_id to reference the Customers table.
* Add a CHECK constraint to ensure the total_amount is always a positive value.

```yaml

```


*List the top 5 countries (by order count) that Classic Models ships to. (Use the Customers and Orders tables)

```yaml

```

#### DDL Commands: Create, Alter, Rename
* Create table facility. Add the below fields into it.
●	Facility_ID
●	Name
●	State
●	Country

i) Alter the table by adding the primary key and auto increment to Facility_ID column.
ii) Add a new column city after name with data type as varchar which should not accept any null values.

```yaml

```

* Create a view named product_category_sales that provides insights into sales performance by product category. This view should include the following information:
productLine: The category name of the product (from the ProductLines table).

* total_sales: The total revenue generated by products within that category (calculated by summing the orderDetails.quantity * orderDetails.priceEach for each product in the category).

* number_of_orders: The total number of orders containing products from that category.

```yaml

```


* Using customers and orders tables, rank the customers based on their order frequency

```yaml

```


* Calculate year wise, month name wise count of orders and year over year (YoY) percentage change. Format the YoY values in no decimals and show in % sign.

```yaml

```




```yaml

```





```yaml

```





```yaml

```






```yaml

```





```yaml

```





```yaml

```





```yaml

```




```yaml

```
